---
title: "Destigmatizing urban villages by examining their attractiveness: Quantification evidence from Shenzhen"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2024-06-12-paper
excerpt: 'While existing social and political research has qualitatively discussed the stigmatization of urban villages (UVs), there's a lack of quantitative support. This study innovatively attempts to provide quantitative evidence, employing a spatial perspective for the destigmatization of UVs. We integrated population trajectory, GDP data, employment and residential points of interest, and developed a spatial gravity model to derive the spatial attractiveness index. Concurrently, we selected environmental, spatial structure, and housing economic indicators to construct a regression analysis. Our findings revealed that urban villagers exhibit a preference for shorter daily commutes, underscoring the positive role of UVs in promoting job-housing balance and providing diverse services. The high-frequency mobility of villagers accelerates the categorization of UVs and enhances intra-area circulation. We further discussed the interaction between UV renewal and its destigmatization. To counter spatial stigmatization, enhancing the spatial quality and infrastructure of UVs, as well as promoting diversified land use can reduce the public's stereotypical impressions. Moreover, prioritizing affordable housing and equitable distribution of facilities, along with fostering synergies between urban capital and UVs, can facilitate the destigmatization process. Stigmatization in informal settlements is a widespread issue. Our quantitative approaches, as well as targeted renovation and policy recommendations, can serve as a blueprint for addressing similar challenges in informal settlements globally.'
date: 2024-06-12
venue: 'Habitat International'
paperurl: 'https://doi.org/10.1016/j.habitatint.2024.103120'
citation: "Rui, J., Xu, Y., & Li, X. (2024). Destigmatizing urban villages by examining their attractiveness: Quantification evidence from Shenzhen. Habitat International, 150, 103120."
---

[Download paper here](http://sealxuyh.github.io/files/1-s2.0-S0197397524001206-main.pdf)
